Good morning, everyone.
Welcome to session 207,
Quartz 2D In-Depth.
And in this session,
we're going to talk about our fully
modern 2D drawing API that we created
when we brought Mac OS X into being.
And it's important to realize that
we're an interesting position,
because Mac OS X actually
has two drawing APIs that are
typically used by developers.
We have, obviously, Quartz 2D,
which is our new drawing API.
We obviously have Quick Draw,
which is our legacy drawing API.
And one thing I think that's
important to understand is where
we're investing our time and effort.
And that's behind Quartz 2D.
And as you're going to see
in today's presentation,
we're adding lots of new features
into Quartz 2D to meet the future
needs of what application developers,
such as yourselves, want.
What's important to understand as you sit
and listen and take in this presentation,
that your take home from WWC this
year with regards to 2D graphics is
to start thinking about if you have
a product that leverages Quick Draw,
to come up with a strategy on how you can
move your product over to use Quartz 2D.
Because that's really where
our focus is on the operating
system in terms of 2D graphics.
So at this point,
I'd like to invite Derek Clegg,
a graphics imaging engineer,
to the stage to take
you through the session.
Good morning.
Welcome to WWDC Day 4.
I hope you're enjoying the conference.
My name is Derek Clegg.
I work in the Quartz
Engineering Technologies Group.
Today I'm going to talk about Quartz,
what it is,
sort of a rough overview of what it is,
a little bit about the
Quartz architecture.
I'm going to focus most of
the time on the Quartz APIs,
particularly some of the
things we've added for Panther,
and along the way I'm
going to have a few demos.
So I'm going to briefly
cover what Quartz is.
Those of you who have been to
previous WWDCs have probably
seen some of this material.
Quartz is our Mac OS X, that is,
imaging model,
the way we get from the things
you want to draw onto the screen.
It's been influenced by a couple of
very powerful industry standards,
such as PostScript and PDF, of course.
That's a pretty fundamental
piece of Quartz 2D.
We also, of course, have adopted parts of
QuickDraw and parts of Java 2D.
And we really think of it as the
next generation imaging model for
your next generation applications.
So the key thing to keep in mind,
as Travis mentioned,
is that here's a graph that
we think is very important.
On the y-axis is innovation.
And as you see,
we're really putting a lot of
energy into innovating in Quartz 2D.
QuickDraw,
it's not a flat ramp or a negative
ramp or anything like that.
But you can tell that we're really
focusing a lot of energy on Quartz 2D.
We're really letting QuickDraw,
in terms of innovation at any rate--
follow as far along as Quartz 2D is.
With Quartz 2D, we're really pushing
everything we can there,
as you've seen in other talks.
We're adding support for OpenGL.
We're adding all sorts
of interesting things,
some of which I'll touch on today.
So the thing, what Quartz 2D is,
sometimes it's also called Core Graphics.
I'll use both terms interchangeably.
Core Graphics is a slightly older name,
but the APIs and so on live in
the Core Graphics framework.
Quartz 2D is a low-level,
lightweight 2D rendering library.
What that means is it's low-level,
it's just C functions,
not a lot of complicated
C++ goop or anything else,
very simple, low-level C functions.
It's lightweight,
there's not a lot of API that you have
to learn to do very complicated things,
it's pretty easy to use.
The 2D API is built up front as a
resolution and device independent API.
So what that means is resolution
independent means if you're
going to a 72 DPI screen,
96 DPI screen, or a 300 DPI printer,
1400 DPI printer, you use the same APIs,
you make the same calls,
you do exactly the same thing,
but your output comes out
beautiful in both cases.
It's device independent,
same sort of sense, going to the screen,
going to your printer, same API calls,
same work you do,
but the output comes out
appropriately on the two devices.
So you can use it for different devices.
Of course, we want to have really
high-quality fonts,
so we use Apple type services
to do all our font management,
and we want color independence,
high-quality, high-fidelity color,
and so we use ColorSync
for color management.
So some people have asked in
the past who uses Quartz 2D.
Of course, Carbon, Cocoa, and Java,
all our implementations inside
Mac OS X rely very heavily on Quartz 2D.
And some of them, for example,
in the Cocoa case,
is pretty much implemented
entirely on top of Quartz 2D.
So it's actually the underlying
framework for everybody.
Many Apple applications not
only use it indirectly through
their use of Carbon and Cocoa,
but often will do direct
API calls into the Quartz 2D API.
For example, Safari does an awful lot of
stuff with Quartz 2D APIs.
That's one of the reasons
it's so fast and powerful.
All our iApps, one way or another,
tend to use Quartz 2D,
sometimes directly,
sometimes indirectly just
through Cocoa or Carbon,
but they leverage that very heavily,
particularly things like iPhoto, iDVD,
those types of applications.
Keynote, for those of you who
saw the talk on Tuesday,
uses Quartz 2D.
And of course,
third-party applications use
Quartz 2D very frequently to do
interesting effects or techniques.
Mathematica, Microsoft Office, of course,
DeltaGraph,
and your application can as well.
And for those of you who
saw Peter's talk on Tuesday,
your application might want to
consider Quartz 2D before your
competitor's application does.
Thank you.
So the general thing about Quartz,
the whole architecture of Quartz,
is Quartz 2D,
which is the APIs you talked to,
underneath that on a lower
level is Quartz Compositor.
So it's really sort of two pieces.
Quartz Compositor is the part
that handles all the window
management that sort of says,
oh, okay, I want to take these multiple
windows and put them on the screen.
It's the thing that does
all the expose cool stuff,
thing that sort of makes your
terminal window 20% alpha,
for example,
and composites under the background so
you see things through it and so on.
I'm not going to really
focus on that too much.
In fact,
I'm not going to focus on it at all.
There's a session tomorrow, session 211,
which we'll go into that in more detail,
so you might want to check into that if
you're interested in Quartz Compositor,
sort of the window management
part of the system.
So again, what do we have in Quartz 2D?
Well, the things I've already mentioned,
device resolution, independence,
and so on.
Of course, we also have very high
quality 2D graphics.
All the anti-aliased rendering,
both line art and text is
anti-aliased at very high quality.
All the special effects such
as LCD text rendering and
so on for your LCD displays.
Transparency, of course,
is a big part of our feature set.
Off-screen rendering,
so you can create a bitmap off-screen,
draw into it using exactly the same APIs,
get the same beautiful effects,
and then composite the result
either to your screen or maybe
write it out as a PDF file,
I mean, as some sort of TIFF file or
JPEG file or something like that.
And then we also have
support for PDF document.
As Peter mentioned on
the talk on Tuesday,
we really think of PDF as
our digital paper format.
And to allow you to get the same
power that we see present in PDF,
we allow you to get the same
power that we see present in PDF.
You get access to the PDF document,
to render it on the screen
or to some other destination,
and to create it directly.
So, let's go over a little bit the
types that we have available
in the Core Graphics API.
Here's a set of the basic sort
of fundamental pieces of the
Core Graphics API that we have
available for you to work with.
Of course, the context,
the context is sort of the
central switching point.
Everything that gets drawn to the screen,
to a PDF file, whatever,
goes through a context.
And when you work with context,
you need to use various pieces,
various other objects to talk to the
context to get things done for you.
So we have support for a path.
A path is just a collection
of lines and curves.
Fonts, of course, are important for text,
clearly.
Images, as you know,
PDF documents are a native
type in the Core Graphics API.
Colors and color spaces, shading,
sort of gradients,
you can think of them as
radial axial fills of regions.
Patterns, repeated drawing operations.
Geometry and affine transforms
for convenience to allow you to
do arbitrary transformations,
rotations, and so on.
And data managers,
those are the type we use
in Core Graphics to get data
in and out of the program.
So we can get into and out,
in from your program
and out to your program.
So, as I mentioned earlier,
I'm not going to go into a huge amount
of depth in some of these various types.
The session last year,
we covered all of these in detail.
It's available on the DVD,
so I definitely recommend that you
go check that out if you're not that
familiar with some of the details,
some of the things I talked about today.
So let's look at the CG context.
A CG context is sort of, as I said,
the switching point.
So your application's up here,
the purple oval, and it's going to call
into the Core Graphics API,
either directly just
by calling CG context,
blah, blah, blah,
or indirectly by calling a
Cocoa or Carbon or Java function.
And the Core Graphics API will then
take what call you've made and switch
it out to the appropriate destination
that you might be drawing to.
So you might have a window context,
in which case all your
drawing will go to the screen.
You might have a PostScript context,
in which case all of your drawing
will go to a PostScript file,
PDF to a PDF document, or bitmap,
an off-screen bitmap.
So the context is sort of the fundamental
piece that we use to push data through
the appropriate points so it comes out
to the destination that you care about.
Now, in terms of drawing primitives,
as I mentioned,
there's a number of auxiliary
objects that we support that you
use to do drawing in a context.
Paths is one example.
Here are some texts.
You can have fancy fonts.
You can have rotated text.
Images, of course,
pretty simple idea there.
PDF pages,
pages from a PDF file that you can draw.
Just like any other primitive,
you can draw it rotated, scaled,
however you want.
All the content will show up correctly.
Patterns.
Here you see an oval with
a bunch of stars in it,
just a repeated set of stars.
That's just obviously what a pattern is.
Shadings, radial or axial shadings.
This year in Panther we're adding
two new drawing primitives.
One is shadows.
Some of you have seen the
cool looking shadows inside
Mac OS X in general in the Aqua UI.
We've added a primitive inside
CG to let you do shadowed,
support shadow drawing for any primitive.
Whenever you draw anything,
if you want to, you can have it shadowed.
So here you see on the left
a bunch of fancy circles and
some sort of logo type design.
And as you can see there's a shadow on
the lower left edge that is providing
sort of a sense that this thing is
on top of the checkered background.
An additional thing that
we've added as well,
and I'm going to go into this a little
bit more in detail down the road.
Another thing we've added for
Panther is transparency layers.
And transparency layers is a
way to sort of temporarily,
draw to another destination and then
have the whole entire result composited
back with a particular effect.
So in this case I might want
to get these nice circles all
drawn with a nice transparency.
And so I can sort of use a transparency
layer to draw the circles off
screen and then when I composite
it back the entire result will
be drawn in with a particular alpha.
And I'm going to go into that in a
little bit more detail later as well.
So now let's look at the types
that I talked about and talk
about those a little bit more.
Of course,
vector geometry is very important.
That's what I was
talking about with paths.
A path can be just a straight line.
It can have a dash,
as you see on the left.
A path can be a collection of curves.
It doesn't have to be closed.
If you want, it can be closed,
like the state of California there,
as you see, is a closed path.
And in addition, that's a filled path,
so paths can be either stroked or filled.
Of course,
a path doesn't have to be stroked.
It can just be simply filled.
As you see on the bottom right,
you have a circle with the red circle,
which actually consists of two paths,
an inside circle and an outside circle.
And when you fill it,
you just get the interior part filled.
And that brings up an interesting thing,
a question about filling.
For those of you who know a
little bit about graphics,
there's two different ways of filling.
There's what's called even-odd
and winding-number fill.
That's the illustration of the
star in the lower left corner.
And core graphics supports
either flavor or fill operation.
Okay.
Another thing you can do with paths
that's very powerful is use them to clip.
You can use them as a
vector geometry clip.
So here you see on the left an arrow,
which we're going to use as just
a path that we want to clip to.
And when I say clip,
what that means is once you
set that as a clipping region,
everything that's subsequently
drawn is clipped through that
path and only shows up where that
path would be normally filled.
So here you see the arrow,
and we set that as a clipping region,
and then we draw an image,
and what we have is only the part
inside the arrow that's drawn.
So this can be a very powerful technique
for complicated drawing operations,
for simple drawing operations.
It's very useful to use paths
as a clipping region like this.
So in addition to paths, of course,
we have text.
Text is a very important part of
any graphics API because most of the
things that you draw tend to be text.
We have support for all the font
flavors that Mac OS X supports.
As you can see,
we can use pretty much any font
that's available in the system.
Text doesn't have to be just sort of
laid out vertically or horizontally.
It can be rotated at an arbitrary angle.
You have complete freedom over that.
Of course, you get all the
high-quality anti-aliasing,
so when you do rotate it,
it looks very beautiful.
It doesn't look sort of bitmappy,
jaggy type.
Text can be stroked or filled,
as you can see with the stroked
text example where you have a
white border on the outside.
And of course, you don't have to restrict
yourself just to Roman text.
You can also have Chinese, Japanese,
Korean, any of those flavors.
So the important thing to know about
the way the Quartz 2D API works,
we're really, like I said before,
we're a low-level, lightweight thing.
That means we don't
work on Unicode strings.
Instead, we work on sort of the processed
Unicode strings after they go
through ATSUI or the Cocoa text
rendering system to end up to Glyphs.
The Glyph is just an index into
a font that tells you the path
you use to draw the character.
It's a very simple API.
So we work at that level.
We're not really a Unicode
text rendering engine.
We're not a layout text rendering engine.
All of that stuff you should
use either with Cocoa or
ATSUI to get the right result.
And in both cases,
there's ways to funnel all of
your drawing down to Glyphs.
And once you have Glyphs, then you could,
if you wanted to,
you could use the Core Graphics API to
draw directly to the screen to a bitmap,
whatever.
Of course, they also have,
both ATSUI and Cocoa,
have a way to draw directly to a context
without you having to get involved,
which is very powerful.
The good thing about Panther,
we've improved the text rendering,
or the Glyph rendering, I should say,
at the Core Graphics level.
In some cases, it's up to twice as fast.
It was already pretty fast.
So this is actually a
pretty significant speedup.
And of course, as I mentioned before,
we support all the standard flavors,
TrueType, Type 1, OpenType, CID,
which is for Chinese, Japanese,
and Korean.
All of those come through ATS,
and we use the ATS very heavily
to get the glyph data out,
and then we go render it,
and we put it to the destination
in a high-quality way.
Of course, images as well are part
of the Core Graphics API.
Here you see that images don't
have to be necessarily just
rectangular blobs of data.
They can be rotated.
You can have a clipping
region associated with it.
The image itself can
have a clipping region.
You can sort of see the ticket has a
nice little notch cut out of its edge.
So images can be used to do
lots of complicated drawing,
and you don't have to restrict
yourself to just a straight
rectangular region of data.
So the, as I mentioned,
we have an alpha channel support so you
have images that have some transparency,
some non-transparency.
In Panther we have support for images
which have 1 to 32 bits per component.
That means that each component of
your pixel can have up to 32 bits.
So you can have a 32 bit red component,
a 32 bit green component,
a 32 bit blue component for
a total of 96 bits per pixel.
So that's very powerful.
We think it's going to give us a
lot of headroom for a long time.
Color space support, in other words,
the way the image data is interpreted,
whether it be RGB or CMYK,
we support all the standard color spaces.
So as I mentioned, red, green, blue,
cyan, magenta, yellow, black.
Index color spaces such as what you
find with GIF images where each pixel
is really an index into a color table.
And of course, ICC profiles,
those are the way of doing color, sorry,
device independent color management.
We use ColorSync to allow
us to give us access to the
ICC profiles and do a lot of work.
We also support image mask
which range from 1 to 8 bits.
An image mask is
effectively just a stencil.
It's just a way of specifying
where you want paint or color
to appear on the destination.
And so you can think of it as a stencil.
And in Panther we have support
for 1 to 8 bit image masks.
[Transcript missing]
So in addition to the standard image
support that we've had in the past,
for this year, for Panther,
we're adding new API to
QuickTime to give us access to
a lot of what QuickTime supports
in terms of image formats.
So the QuickTime guys have added
graciously some API to create a
CG image ref directly from any graphics
importer that you might happen to have.
And this means that any image format
that's supported by QuickTime can now
be drawn directly into a CG context.
You don't have to sort of go and
create a G world and do all the
dance that you used to have to do.
So that means we now support,
through this QuickTime API, JPEG 2000,
GIF images, pretty much anything that
QuickTime supports is now supported
in CG directly drawn into a context.
And the important part
about it is that QuickTime,
excuse me, the QuickTime API preserves as
much of the information of the
original source image as it can.
So if there was transparency
in the original source image,
it will preserve that.
If there's a color sync profile,
Anything that makes sense to preserve.
Through the Core Graphics API,
it will preserve.
And the API itself is pretty trivial.
It's a very nice, simple API.
Graphics import creates CG image.
You take a graphics importer
and hand it to this API,
and out pops a CG image ref.
And then you can use that just
as you would any other CG image
ref to draw to any context,
to PDF, to PostScript, whatever you wish.
Another thing that we can do with a
context is we can draw PDF documents.
We can draw pages of a
PDF document into a context.
We support importing of PDF 1.0, 1.1,
PDF 1.4 flavors of documents.
One thing that's very useful is a lot
of times people want to create PDF.
We also have API to allow you
to create PDF from the drawing.
A PDF context lets you
do PDF document creation.
When we create PDF content,
we always will export PDF 1.3,
which means that it's more widely
supported on older Acrobat readers.
If we need to,
if there are cases where we have to,
we will bump it up to PDF 1.4.
For example, if you use transparency,
that's only a PDF 1.4 feature.
We try to keep the PDF document as widely
distributable as possible because we do
think of it as something that's very,
as we said,
the digital paper of Mac OS X.
An important part about our
PDF document support is that we have
full round tripping of the CG API.
What that means is that if you
draw anything in Core Graphics
and then to a PDF context,
what comes out is a PDF document that
will view correctly in Preview and
in Acrobat exactly as you originally
specified the drawing in the context.
We get a full round tripping so
you don't lose any information
when you draw to a PDF context.
It will show up correctly as you
want it in Acrobat and Preview.
For those of you who worry
about this sort of thing,
we also have support for prepressed data
interchange via PDF X3 if you provide the
right keys and additional dictionaries
when you create the PDF context.
New this year for Panther, in addition,
in the past the API has
been pretty monolithic.
There's a PDF document and you have to do
a bunch of stuff with the PDF document.
It's a little bit awkward.
So we've added some convenience
APIs to do page-based access so
you can get information directly.
There's now a new type,
a CG PDF page ref,
which you can work with.
So it's a little bit more convenient.
You get the standard
things such as media box,
crop box, and so on from the PDF page.
Things like the rotation
angle and the page number.
And then what I think is
actually even more interesting,
we have also decided to unlock
the inside of the PDF file.
So we now have new API which will give
you access directly into the PDF document
itself in more of its native form.
And the idea,
for those of you who aren't familiar
with the way PDF is structured,
you can sort of think
about it as a big tree.
And it's a big tree that starts
out with the very top with a
root node called the catalog.
And this catalog is a dictionary.
And all the entries in the dictionary
are either more dictionaries
or arrays or values of integers
and reals and stuff like that.
So it's just this big tree structure.
It's like a property list.
So in order to mirror that structure,
we have new API -- or sorry,
new types such as like CG PDF dictionary,
CG PDF array, and so on,
which allow you to sort of model
the contents of the PDF file.
We have new API for a
PDF document to get its catalog,
sort of its root node.
And we have new API to get the
dictionary directly from a page.
A lot of times,
you don't necessarily care so much
about the entire overarching structure.
You just want to know,
does this page have a thumbnail
or does this page have any
annotations and stuff like that?
So those are the convenience
APIs that we have available.
As you can see,
here's a very simple example
of how to use this API.
In this case, we are thinking, "Oh,
we'd like to get the thumbnail for
this page." So we declare two types,
a dictionary and a stream.
The stream is sort of the way
PDF represents an arbitrary
collection of just data.
In this case,
it's going to be image data.
We get the dictionary for
the page that we care about,
that we want to get the thumbnail from.
And then that's just a dictionary
that we can look up values in.
And here we're going to
look up the thumbnail.
The key, the way the PDF specification
defines the thumbnail is via
the key "thumb." So here we say,
"Does this dictionary have an entry
called 'thumb' that's a stream for
the page dictionary?" And if it does,
then we want to get the
data from the stream.
And once we get the data,
then we may want to go off
and draw that to the screen.
We may want to pretend like we're
previewing and draw the little
thumbnail in the drawer on the side.
The format key just says, "Is it JPEG?
Is it not JPEG?" Currently in Panther,
you have one flavor or the other.
We do all of the decryption, decoding,
stuff like that for you,
except in the case of JPEG,
where it doesn't make as much sense.
So just a simple demo of this.
I'll go over to the
So here I have a very simple PDF file.
It just has some text,
"Hello World" in Times Roman.
And I'll take that to my
PDF introspection app.
This is actually about a
two hour worth of work.
Most of it was figuring out what to
do in Cocoa to do the right thing.
As you can see,
what I've done is all I'm doing is just
displaying the contents of the PDF file,
sort of what it looks like when
you actually open it up and look
at the real structure inside it.
So here you see we're
at the top root node.
We have the catalog.
This is the dictionary for the catalog.
And the root node has the pages.
In this case, there's just one page.
That's the count.
Kids is the PDF way of talking
about each page in the document.
So we can open it up.
Kids is just an array,
obviously indexed by zero.
And it has a dictionary in it,
which is the first page.
So I can bring up my inspector,
which I have.
And all of this is just
with public Panther API.
None of this is special or
hidden or anything like that.
It just allows you complete
access to the PDF file.
Here you can see that the page has a
bunch of entries in it that are related
to how the page gets drawn and so on.
As you can see, here's the resources.
The resources have some fonts.
Here's the font.
You can see, oh, look, it's Times Roman.
So you say, oh, it's drawing Times Roman.
Good.
It's doing the right thing.
And here's the contents of the actual
drawing operations for this PDF file.
Basically, it's sort of like set
the font to 36 point.
F1 means Times Roman in this case.
Position it 1010 and draw Hello World.
So it's a pretty trivial PDF file.
But this--and this is
a pretty trivial app.
But we think that this,
allowing developers to get access to the
contents of the PDF and introspect in
interesting ways will be very powerful
and provide a lot of interesting
application opportunities for you.
Okay, let me quit that and
go back to the slides.
Okay.
So that's the,
we're still sort of trundling through
the things you can do with a context.
Another thing you can work with
a context is a color space.
The color space type,
as I mentioned earlier,
tells Core Graphics how
to interpret color data.
So as I showed you
before with that profile,
one of the profiles showed you that
was an example where the color space,
the profile said,
oh the first component's red,
the second one's green,
the third one's blue.
Another one was a profile that said,
oh the first component's blue,
the second one's green,
the third one's red.
So color profiles are used
in order to provide data and
interpretation of the color data.
And a better example perhaps is a
profile for a camera which might say,
oh here's how you tweak things
when you draw it so it looks
the right way on your monitor.
New for Panther,
we're adding two new convenience APIs.
One is a way to get the
document default color space.
A user, if they choose,
can set the way they want
the document to look.
So that's the first one.
The second one is a profile that says,
oh here's how you tweak things
when you draw it so it looks
the right way on your monitor.
New for Panther,
we're adding two new convenience APIs.
One is a way to get the
document default color space.
A user, if they choose,
can set the way they want
the document to look.
document by default to
specify colors if in fact the
document doesn't do it itself.
There's no profile embedded.
This is a convenience function
because it turned out in the past.
This was actually difficult to get.
It's information that's available.
It used to be the ColorSync
Preferences Panel,
now it's in the ColorSync Utility.
It was a little bit more complicated
to get that information so now
we have a simple way of getting
it directly through the CGAPI.
We're also adding a new API to allow
you to get a display color space.
A display color space is our term
for a color space which is very
fast in drawing to the screen.
There's no matching.
What that means is there's no special
conversions that happen in order
to draw something to the screen.
As you specify it,
it's drawn to the screen.
You get very fast drawing to the screen.
It's very appropriate for something
like UI or something like that
where the precise color that you
get on the screen may not be that
critical relative to the color.
It's very important to get the precise
color that you get on the screen.
You don't want to have a
lot of color in the drawing.
You want to have a lot of color
in the drawing to the time it
might take to do the drawing.
For example,
if you had a screen saver or something,
you don't really care that
much about precise color but
you just want it to be fast.
The important thing too is that you
get a consistent profile any time
you go to another output device.
When you're printing, for example,
you get what's called in ColorSync
products the generic profile.
That is just some profile that's
been specified which means that from
any device that you're printing,
you'll always get a consistent result.
You won't get different results or crazy
results when you're printing to different
types of printers and stuff like that.
You'll always get a constant look.
This is, I think,
something that will be very
powerful for developers who
want to do fast screen drawing.
If they do need to print,
if it does happen that they need to,
they'll get a constant consistent
result on the output side.
There's a lot more information,
much more than I can go
into here in session 206,
the ColorSync update.
If you're interested in
color management and so on,
I recommend that you go to that.
Another thing that we're adding this
year for Panther is a new primitive type,
the CGColorRef.
It turns out in the Jaguar APIs,
sometimes it was a little
bit awkward to set colors.
Well, not necessarily awkward,
but the API didn't actually match
what was going on internally.
Internally, we use a CGColorRef,
this primitive type,
for all of our color management.
And so all the API before,
you sort of had to specify
in terms of components,
and we'd end up allocating ColorRef,
and we'd do all this little dance.
And the truth is,
what we ended up with internally
always was CGColorRef.
It's just a container that
holds both the color space,
the way to interpret data,
and the components for the color.
So you might, for example,
have a CGColorRef which is red
with this particular profile,
and it would be 100 RGB plus the
profile that you're interested in.
As I mentioned, it's the fundamental type
for colors in Quartz 2D.
It's a thing that we
use always internally.
So anytime you are calling the old APIs,
you will end up internally
getting the CG color ref.
Well,
if you can create one yourself and use
it yourself and manage it yourself,
then as you can imagine,
we don't have to do that work internally.
We can just use the color ref
that you provide us directly.
So it is in fact very fast.
It's much faster to use a color
ref than it is to sort of go
through the original APIs.
That said, there are cases when it's
not as maybe as powerful.
There are some cases where it's more
powerful than it is in other cases.
So in particular,
if you use a constant color,
if you draw a lot of text in red with
this particular profile or a lot of
text in purple with this other profile,
creating a CG color ref
that you hang on to,
that you reuse over and over and over,
will be much faster than
setting that every single time.
Part of the reason for that
is we can do all sorts of
optimizations in the back end.
So if you want to, for example,
we might cache the color,
we might do pre-conversions to a known
set of color spaces because we're always
going to some particular destination.
Who knows, we might upload it to OpenGL.
It could be anything in the world.
But if you can reuse
the color over and over,
it will be somewhat faster than if
you had to set it and recreate a new
thing and then discard it at the end.
If on the other hand,
you use lots and lots
of different colors,
if you're using every color of
the rainbow all over the place,
then you don't get as big
a speed advantage because
we can't reuse the color.
We're sort of creating one, using it,
discarding it, creating one, using it,
discarding it,
so you don't get quite as much advantage.
But there are cases where
it would be very powerful.
A typical case would be black text.
Almost every piece of text
that's ever drawn is in black,
the slides here notwithstanding.
So creating a black color and reusing
that over and over every time you draw
a black text makes a lot of sense.
Of course,
there's some new API to allow you to
set the color directly into the context.
CGContext.setFillColorWithColor
is a little bit awkward names,
but the better names were already taken.
Okay, another thing that you can do with
a context is specify a shading.
Shadings are just a way of doing axial
or radial gradients where you provide a
function that tells us what colors you
want to be drawn across the gradient.
So here you see on the left you
see a radial shading where you
start out with a white bright dot
in the sort of offset from the
center of the circle and you sort of
transition outward smoothly to pink.
And on the right you have an axial
shading which goes through a number of
different colors all provided by the
function that you might provide yourself.
So we don't really restrict
what colors you can use,
how you work with it.
We also don't do any restriction
in terms of things like,
you know, here you can see that the
circles don't have to be
concentric or anything like that.
They can sort of be pretty much
two different circles anywhere in
space that you want and you'll get
a nice transition between them.
For Panther,
we've put an awful lot of effort
into improving our performance of
axial and radial shading drawing.
We want to, well,
the truth is that we want to have what
we call keynote quality gradients.
And by keynote quality,
I mean satisfy the
principal user keynote.
And so, you know,
that takes a bit of work, it turns out.
And so our goal has been for
Panther to be keynote quality.
And I believe that we've reached
that goal in the current release.
So one of the things that we allow
you to do is actually specify
the level of quality you want
because there are cases when you
actually just sort of want a fast,
as fast as possible shading,
not necessarily super high quality
because it's just a one-off or you're
doing some small little drawing
in the corner or who knows what.
The typical way that this
works is through dithering.
As you might know,
if you're doing a gradient,
when you zoom it up very large,
you can sometimes get banding.
And so dithering is an
approach to solve this problem.
So you can now control the
shading and the way it's drawn
via the interpolation quality.
Same sort of way you control the quality
of images when they're scaled up or
scaled down by the interpolation quality.
And then also in Panther,
we've added the ability to
have a transition between
opaque and non-opaque colors.
In the past, in Jaguar,
all the colors were treated as
if they were just 100% opaque.
So you can do a nice transition
with a transparent color.
Now in Panther, we've added the ability
to use transparent,
non-opaque colors.
So you can have a transition
from 0%, maybe 0% alpha,
so completely transparent,
to fully opaque.
So you get a nice transition
across where you start out with
seeing the stuff in the background.
And by the time you get to the end,
you see nothing from the background.
Another thing that we've added,
as I mentioned earlier, is shadows.
Shadows are basically applied
to any drawing you do.
We'll take the result of the drawing
and we'll create a shadow from it
and we'll write it down essentially
underneath the object that you're
drawing at the offset you provide
with the blur radius you provide.
That way you can do shadows to
all sorts of things that you want.
Anything that's standard CG API,
you can shadow.
As you see here on the right,
I have some text shadowed
in an ordinary way.
On the left, it may be hard to see.
Maybe you can see it.
On the left, the top figure,
this little logo that I've created,
has a shadow that has a hard edge.
On the bottom, it has a softer edge.
The blur radius,
the amount of blur you get in your
shadow is controllable so that you
can set that as you want depending
on the effect you're trying to get.
As I mentioned, the API that is available
allows you to specify an offset,
sort of the position relative
to the object you're drawing,
how far off the shadow appears,
the position around as well,
and also the blur radiance, of course.
And this is part of the graphic state,
which means that you can
save the graphic state,
set up your shadow, do some drawing,
and restore the graphic state,
and then the shadow's gone.
So you can do just very
precise shadowing of objects.
Here's a code example of actually
how you would use a shadow,
how you'd actually set it up.
In this case,
we're imagining that we've already
set up a path that we want to
stroke in the context somewhere.
Somebody's done that for us,
and we want to do a shadow of it.
So you can see here we start out
by just doing a save G state.
We're going to save the graphic state
because we just want this path's shadow,
nothing else.
We set up the offset.
Here it's going to be 5.5 in default user
space relative to what we're drawing,
so it's going to be sort of shifted.
Actually,
it's going to be shifted up this way.
So it's as if the light source
were down here shooting up.
And then we just call
CGContextSetShadow with the context,
of course,
the offset that we've just created,
and the blur radius.
And we imagine someone has specified
the blur radius that they want to use.
And then we call CGContextStrokePath
and CGContextRestoreGState.
So it's as simple as that.
It's nothing very fancy or complex,
but now you get a shadowed path.
And all of the nice anti-aliasing
that happens with regular,
everything else will happen.
All of the pretty drawings,
the interpolation,
anything that happens that
needs to happen will happen.
And you'll just have a shadow
underneath the object you were drawing.
So this can be very, very powerful.
And here's a simple demo
I'm going to show of this.
So here's just a bunch of
objects that are animating.
This is just a simple Cocoa app
that just animates the object.
You can see all the objects
have shadows underneath them.
And you get,
and the shadows don't really incur
a tremendous performance penalty.
This is in fact very little of one.
This is animating a pretty good clip.
And as you can see here,
we have the shadow.
You can sort of see that in this
case the shadow is sort of drawn.
It looks as if it's a 3D effect.
Of course it's not.
It's just sort of whatever is
drawn later will cast a shadow
on what was drawn before.
So it looks,
here you see that it looks as
though this is on top of this.
But of course it's not really.
This was just drawn later.
But you do have the shadow
on top of the other objects.
As you can see here a little bit
where the shadows intersect you
get a slightly darker appearance.
And as I mentioned you can set the
shadow position anywhere you want.
You can sort of play
around with it and say,
"Oh, I like it there.
That's really pretty."
Or whatever you like.
And as I said before you can
set the blur radius so you
can get it to be more fuzzy,
more diffuse light.
Or a sharper light.
Whatever you'd like.
So it's actually,
it's a pretty simple API and then
you can just use it for anything
that you might want to draw.
Okay, so back to the slides.
Okay, so another thing that
we've added for Panther,
as I mentioned earlier,
is transparency layers.
And the problem we're trying
to solve is this math equation.
What do you get when
you want to do a logo?
Let's say we're going to combine
these three circles in a way that
we would like to combine them so
that they're overlapping each other,
but we want to have the results shadowed,
okay?
How do we do that so that it looks right?
As a clear example,
here you see on the left,
you have our logo,
our three circles drawn,
but we've tried to shadow it and
we get this horrible result where
every circle shadows the ones
underneath it or ones drawn earlier.
It looks awful.
What we really want is the one
on the right where we have this
nice little logo that I've created
and the whole thing is shadowed.
What we've added in Panther is
what we call a transparency layer.
I've been mentioning
shadows and you might think,
"Well, why isn't it called a
shadow layer?" Well,
both names are actually
sort of misnomers.
It's really just a way of,
you can sort of think of it as a layer.
It's really a way to
sort of temporarily say,
"Okay,
take what I'm going to draw for a while
until I tell you to stop and collect
it all up in whatever form makes sense.
Then after I say stop,
take the result and bring it back
to the table." You can draw it
back with the effect that you want.
Here,
what we're sort of doing is we're saying
we're going to begin a transparency
layer where we're going to draw
the three circles all together.
Then when we say,
"Now we're done," we take the three
circles as they're drawn and then take
the whole thing and shadow the result.
So, so it's, it, as I've mentioned here,
it's good if you want to do a
bunch of objects all simultaneously
and just applying this,
the effect to the entire aggregate,
not to sort of each one independently.
And it really is just like a
layer in a graphics application.
You can sort of think of it that way.
The important thing that makes it
really simple to use is that you can
is that the graphic state parameters
in your context aren't changed
except for the ones that actually
affect the final compositing result.
So that means you can sort of just set
up your G-state the way you want to,
begin a transparency layer,
draw some stuff in a transparency layer,
and bam, you have the right result.
And it's nestable,
so you can do transparency layer
inside a transparency layer
inside a transparency layer,
do the whole thing all the way back,
and you'll get the right result as well.
So as a simple example
here you see again,
this is sort of the origin of why
we call it the transparency layer.
Here on the left is sort of what
I would consider the wrong thing.
I don't want each circle 50%
alpha drawn on top of each other
because then I get this sort of,
I don't know, it doesn't even look right
on the left hand side.
What I really want is all the circles
drawn essentially simultaneously
and then the final result composited
to the destination with the
alpha value that I've chosen.
The code to do that is really,
really simple.
Here you see what I start out
with is I tell the context what
alpha I'm going to be using,
and then I begin transparency layer.
I just say, "Begin a transparency layer.
That's all I have to do."
And I presume I have some
subroutine that does my little logo,
draw circles in rect,
which will go off and draw
them in the right way,
and basically draw one on top of
the other on top of the other.
And then I just say,
"CG context in transparency layer."
And what I end up with is all of that
drawing that I've done is composited
to the destination with the alpha .7,
so I get the effect I'm
actually looking for.
So again, a little demo.
Here's my simple application.
So you can see this is wrong.
I'm imagining that I'm an artist and I'm
going to make my logo and I'm trying to,
and then it's, oh, it's just all wrong,
everything's shadowed, it's terrible.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to click here.
And now when I do the drawing,
it's as if each of these is drawn and
it's all drawn sort of simultaneously
and just the result is shadowed.
So I don't have this bad effect
of everything sort of being
shadowed one on top of another.
As you can see, it works just the same
as any other shadow.
It just sort of can move around.
And of course only the
aggregate is shadowed,
not each thing independently.
And of course blur radius
works the same way.
So it actually can be pretty
powerful for doing groups of
objects and applying effect to the,
just to the result,
not to the each individual
object independently.
Okay, back to the slides.
Okay, so that's sort of all of the types,
all of the primitive things you can
work with with a context to do drawing,
do actually relatively
complicated drawing.
And so now we want to step back
a little bit and look at just
the context idea in general.
So in Jaguar we have,
again as I showed you earlier,
you can pretty much go to a window,
post group, PDF, bitmap context.
And the one thing is that the bitmap
context is restricted in Jaguar.
You can only have an RGB destination.
So no matter what,
anytime you're doing drawing,
you just get RGB out,
which is good in many cases.
It's very powerful.
But for Panther,
we're also going to let you create
a CMYK bitmap context so you can,
for those of you who are clapping,
hooray,
so that you can do direct output from
your core graphics API to a CMYK bitmap.
And of course, obviously,
you can still do an
RGB bitmap if you want.
And this can be very powerful
in some printing applications.
And it's very simple, again.
You don't have any new API.
You just create a CMYK color space.
This is a parameter that you pass
to the bitmap creation function.
And you just create a CMYK color space,
pass it to the bitmap
context creation function,
and now you have a CMYK context.
And it will just work exactly
the way any other context does.
In addition, so we have this little
nice diagram on the bottom,
window, PostScript, PDF, bitmap.
And for those of you who
saw Peter's talk on Tuesday,
one of the key things was OpenGL.
And you might say, wow,
I'd like to be able to draw with the
CG context into my OpenGL context.
Why can't I?
Well, you can in Panther.
We have support now
for an OpenGL context.
So you take your GL context obj and
you pass it to a special creation
function and out pops a CG context.
And again, it works just like every
other context you can do.
You can do high quality text drawing.
You can do all the shadows and
shadings and stuff like that
that I showed you earlier,
transparency layers.
Everything works the same as
every other context in the system.
The API is again pretty simple.
There's CG, it's a mouthful to say.
I'm going to take
It's CGGL Context Create,
and it takes a CGL context obj.
That's the thing that you work
with for the OpenGL for those
of you who are familiar with it.
A size, which is the viewport size,
and a color space.
The color space says how to convert
device independent colors to the
actual destination of the GL context.
And what you get back
is a CG context ref,
just like any other CG context ref,
so you can start immediately
drawing your high-quality text
on your GL context and so on.
It has an additional API,
CGGL Context Update Viewport Size,
in case your viewport size changes,
you can call that.
In addition to all of that,
we're also adding in Panther,
although it's not in the seed that
you're going to get or that you have yet.
We're adding API to do sort of
a scroll rect and copy bits.
For those of you who are
familiar with QuickDraw,
light.
When I say light, what I mean is actually
it's really a copy.
It doesn't go through
any special effects,
doesn't do anything crazy
or anything like that.
It just takes bits here and there.
It copies them to here.
But this is very powerful for the
situations when you need that,
when you want to do a scroll yourself
or some sort of copy yourself.
You can do a scroll,
which means that you're copying
from one context back to itself.
So if you just wanted to
slide some content up.
Or you can do a copy.
So you take a rectangle of bits from one
context and copy them to another context,
another destination.
And in addition,
we will have API which lets
you create a CG image directly
from a region in a context.
You might do some drawing to the screen,
grab the area you're interested in,
and create a CG image from that.
And maybe you write that as a JPEG or
TIFF or something else as you wish.
Okay, so that's the sort of the general
thing of context for Panther.
The directions we're going,
as you can see,
we're sort of trying to innovate more,
add things that people need.
We've got a lot of new
APIs for you to work with.
We've had the PDF metadata access.
You can actually crack open PDF files
and start working with them directly.
Pixel copying, as I mentioned.
And we've put in a lot of performance
and quality improvements and we're
going to continue doing that.
We view performance as a very
critical thing in Panther and
certainly at our level.
We're pretty much nowadays,
everything funnels through us.
Performance is key for us.
And so we spend a lot of effort
making things very fast and very high
quality where that is appropriate.
Okay, so that's sort of what's
new in Panther for context.
So now let's sort of step back even
farther and look at what you can
do with the Quartz API in general.
One of the things that we've added,
which we found people have
been very interested in,
is Python bindings.
So since Quartz is so powerful
and rich and has all those
nice things you can do with it,
it'd be great if you didn't have to
actually write a program to do anything.
If you could just write a simple
script to have things come out,
the drawing that you might want to do.
And so we've added some
Python bindings that let you get
access directly to the CG APIs to
do anything that you can do with it.
So that's what you can do with
a regular ordinary program.
As I mentioned here,
the fact that it's an object-oriented
interpreted language makes
it really simple to do quick
sort of one-off programs,
little tests or examples and so on.
And there's lots of
ways you could use this.
Here I mentioned scripting
a PDF manipulation.
For example,
you might want to take a PDF file and do,
say, a 4-up version of it or
put a watermark on it,
something like that.
Or you might want to take some sort of
complicated PDF file or maybe just some
complicated drawing of your own and
draw directly to a bitmap and then take
the result and create a JPEG out of it.
So rather than having to go
through the whole process of
writing a program to do that,
you could just use a script
language to do that for you.
The, as I say, the APIs that we have,
almost all the APIs are wrapped
so you can use them just like you
would use them in your C program.
Most of them are wrapped,
not all of them,
but we're probably going to
end up adding all of them.
And then because the CG API is powerful,
it's still not everything you need to do,
sort of really what you want in
terms of some convenience functions.
So, for example, CG doesn't support a lot
of the QuickTime image IO,
but we've added wraps for that
via the new API so that you can
get IO from QuickTime easily.
And then because, again,
as I mentioned earlier,
we don't really work at the text level.
We work at the glyph level.
We've also added some wraps to do
layout and rendering of text via Cocoa.
So you can do regular text layout, HTML,
RTF, anything like that.
And so you can sort of get high-quality
text layout through the Python bindings.
So here's a code example
of how you might,
in this case, we're going to draw a red
circle in the middle of,
well, near the middle of a page and
create a PDF file from it.
So it's a really very simple example.
As you can see,
we start out by doing from
core graphics import star,
which is the Python way of saying
bring in everything that has
to do with the core graphics.
Thank you.
And then we create a rectangle.
So this looks just like your
regular C code that you might write
if you're using core graphics.
Cgrec make without the semicolon.
That's the only part that's missing.
In this case, it's going to be 8.5 by 11,
612 by 792 points.
We create a PDF context with a file.
So we're going to write to
the file called circle.pdf,
and we pass in the default page rect.
So if we don't specify a page rect,
that's going to be the
rectangle that's used.
And then we do Cgcontext begin page.
We start out with the first page.
Set RGB fill color.
In this case, it's going to be red,
no green, no blue, and fully opaque.
Alpha is one.
And then we add an arc.
The arc is positioned at 300, 300.
That's the center.
Its radius is 100.
And it goes from 0.
To 2 pi radians.
And we're going to make
it counterclockwise.
And then we just fill the path.
Now we have a red circle in the PDF file.
And when we do end page, we're done.
That's it.
So now we have done a very simple
drawing of a red circle in a PDF file.
Of course, this is a simple example,
but you can do much more
complicated things than this.
Okay, so that's Python bindings.
Then we've also found that a lot of
people have legacy PostScript files.
PDF is a great digital paper format,
but there's people who
have written theses,
that have used tech
to produce PostScript,
and who knows what all, right?
There's all this PostScript files
that sort of are still around that you
might like to move forward into PDF.
Or you might just want to
have an application that
displays PostScript files
if you wanted to accept it.
So we have new API in Panther that
will convert PostScript to PDF so
that you can call it directly and
you can do all the conversions
you want from PostScript to PDF.
You provide a set of callbacks which are
a way for us to tell you things like,
oh, I'm finished page one,
I'm going to start on page two, or oh,
I'm finished the document, or by the way,
there's this warning that occurred,
or I couldn't find this font,
or I'm aborting because you've
used an invalid operator,
whatever.
The callback mechanisms are there so
that you get as much information that you
might normally think you would get from,
say, a PostScript printer.
The one thing,
the things to remember are that
because it is a PostScript interpreter,
it brings in the entire
PostScript VM into your process,
which is, you know,
can be pretty big actually, to be frank.
It's not,
it's a non-zero cost to your application.
And again,
because you are bringing up this VM and
it's got to figure out about fonts
and all that sort of information,
it can be a little slow to start up.
So that's one thing to
keep in mind as well,
that those two things are things
that you might want to be aware of.
But once it's started up, bam,
off you go.
All the conversion happens pretty fast.
So here's an example,
a code example of what you might do.
And it turns out the astute among you or
the awake perhaps will notice that I'm
writing and reading from the same file,
which is a bug.
But if you imagine that in the first line
I'm actually creating a data provider,
a way to get data into
Core Graphics from your application
with some PostScript URL.
In the second line I'm going
to create a data consumer,
a way for Core Graphics to
give information to you with,
in this case let's
imagine a different URL,
a different PDF URL let's suppose.
So we have an in and an out and then
we're going to create a converter.
CGPS converter create
creates the converter.
We presume the callbacks have been
specified by you so that you want
information about warnings or pages
being completed and stuff like that.
And once we've created the converter
then we can just use it to create,
to convert PostScript files.
And so here you see CGPS converter
convert takes the converter
and an input file and an output
file and returns success if
it succeeds and false if it fails.
And what's good about this is that
once you've started this up and
converted the PostScript file then
you can just reuse the converter.
It's all ready to go and you can just
sort of convert more PostScript files
if you have a thousand of them or just
have this sort of ready to go so that
when someone drags in a PostScript file
you can do the conversion automatically.
So it has a pretty flexible
interface in that respect.
Okay, so to sum up,
we have lots of API that you
can play with for Panther.
Of course, there's all the API we've
already had in Jaguar.
So for those of you who
haven't been using Quartz 2D,
I encourage you to experiment
with some of this and play
around and see what you can do.
We're going to keep adding
more API where it makes sense,
and part of the way that makes
sense is for you to tell us what
you need and what is missing that
you find would be really useful.
A lot of things we've added this
year have been based directly on
feedback we've gotten last year,
so your feedback is very important
to us and is very useful for helping
us direct where we're innovating
to satisfy the needs of you,
the developers.
And so now I'm going to bring Travis back
up to wrap up and give you the roadmap.
So remaining today in the roadmap
for the graphics imaging track,
our next session is
going to be session 2.8,
which is Fragment
Programming with OpenGL.
In the graphics and imaging overview,
you saw us do a lot of really
incredible real-time pixel operations
and hosting those in the GPU.
And this is a session that's
going to talk about the techniques
that you use to do that.
Then we also have session 209,
which is OpenGL optimizations.
If you are interested in finding out how
to use OpenGL to its best on Mac OS X,
please attend that session.
And then to people doing 2D graphics,
obviously a good companion session
that you'll want to attend is 210,
which is Mac OS X printing update.
Obviously a significant client to
the Quartz 2D technology inside
Mac OS X is the printing system,
because our printing system
does use Quartz to do both
its PostScript generation
and also its rasterization.
So there's going to be lots of
information relating to Quartz
2D and how it all interacts with
our whole printing architecture.
So 210 is going to be a great
session for you to attend.
And then we have 211,
which is talking about the parts of
Quartz that do not deal with drawing,
but deal with the other services.
That the system needs, for example,
handling displays and whatnot.
And then also we have
an interesting session,
212,
which is cutting edge OpenGL techniques,
which is going to be presented
by our hardware partners,
ATI.
They have their sort of OpenGL heavy
hitters who are coming to present and
let you know what you can do when you
really push the envelope with OpenGL.
So that's going to be
an exciting session.
And then we have a feedback
forum at our traditional time.
Which is... The feedback
is Friday at 5:00 PM.
Obviously you can give us feedback
when you see us in the hallway
or at the end of this Q&A.
But if you have more significant
feedback you want to get us,
please attend the feedback forum.
Because it's a great time to
basically let us know what you
want to see in Mac OS X in terms of
graphics technology in the future.
So now what I want to do is give
you some contact information.
I'm your best point of contact for any
of the graphics technologies in Mac OS X.
I can be found at travis@apple.com.
And so please contact me
with any questions you have.
Regarding the technologies
you've seen thus far.
Let me bring the Q&A panel up.
Actually we do have some references here.
But... So we have some additional
documentation on the ADC site.
And we also have a developer web page
that addresses Quartz as a general
umbrella technology for our windowing
system and our 2D drawing APIs.